That the following article is proposed as an amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all intents and 
purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of 
three-fourths of the several States: 
"Article ___
Section 1:
The Deputy Attorney General shall be elected in accordance with this 
Constitution, by national popular vote by a ballot option separate from 
any other office. A Deputy Attorney General shall hold this office for a 
term of four years.
Section 2:
A Deputy Attorney General will assume all duties and powers of the 
Attorney General in the case of incapacitation of the Attorney General, 
or in any specific matter from which the Attorney General is recused, or 
if the Attorney General is removed from office in accordance with this 
Constitution. An Attorney General may delegate authority to the Deputy 
Attorney General in keeping with tradition and good governance.
Section 3:
Before taking office, the Deputy Attorney General Elect will take the 
following Oath or Affirmation: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I 
will faithfully execute the Office of Deputy Attorney General of the 
United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and 
defend the Constitution of the United States.”
Section 4:
The term of the Deputy Attorney General shall end at noon on the 5th 
day of February of the year in which such term would have ended if this 
article had not been ratified, and the terms of their successors shall then 
begin.
Section 5:
A Deputy Attorney General may be removed for Good Cause by 
Executive Order of the President of the United States signed by both the 
President and the Attorney General. Such Executive Order must list the 
causes for removal and may take effect no earlier than ten days from the 
date it is signed by the President and the Attorney General and delivered 
to Congress. The Congress may override a Presidential removal of the 
Deputy Attorney General by a vote, held within ten days of the delivery 
of the Executive Order, greater than or equal to that necessary to 
override a Presidential veto of legislation.
Section 6:
A Deputy Attorney General may be removed from office by 
Congress on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or 
other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.”
